---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about
---

<img src="/files/Joshua_Rogers_Melbourne.jpg" width="200" height="200" alt="Joshua Rogers, hacker and security expert, bartender, master troll, from Melbourne Australia, living in Krakow, Poland" />

I'm Joshua Rogers. Originally from Melbourne, Australia. These days I live in Poland.

I have 12+ years of security experience and have years of sysadmin experience 
(linux and freebsd). I have a BSc in Applied Mathematics and a BA in 
Cinema/Film studies.

I'm driven by the unfamiliar and unexplored. I'm motivated by the unknown and 
chaotic, and this is a driving force or my problem-solver attitude, which has 
allowed me to solve problems that others overlook. I try to make a real 
difference in everything that I do, and not be replaceable.

If you're interesting in chatting (and I always am), you should [contact 
me](/contact.html).

Some call me an all-rounder due to my ability to jump into nearly any 
situation and get the ball rolling immediately. I get things done when others 
don't. Some people see one part of a problem, I see the whole picture. Putting 
things into perspective of the whole world is paramount, and both the 
significance and insignificance of ourselves and surroundings is crucial to 
driving meaningful change.

---

The following is a summary of an in-depth look into who I am, my values, my 
interests, my history, my motivations, and what I'm looking for from others. 
Looking for the best cyber security expert in the world? Well, look elsewhere! 
I may not be able to solve leetcode problems, nor do I take part in bug 
bounties, but it you're looking for a detail-oriented, dedicated, and 
passionate person that enjoys solving problems, never gives up, and will learn 
the how to do anything that hasn't been learnt before, then I might just be 
the person you're looking for.

From a young age, I've been drawn to the unknown and new, somehow getting 
caught up in the trendy things before they become popular. My curiosity has 
led me into many different worlds including computers, programming, systems 
administration, cyber security, bartending and hospitality, sports, and 
travel. I like breaking things down to see how they work, and then rebuilding 
them better.

In 2007, I got interested in video game glitching and bug-abuse in the MMORPG 
RuneScape, and a few other games. This interest centered on logic-based 
vulnerabilities in games - like the abuse of ingame mechanics - and could be 
just for fun where some graphics were broken, all the way up to game breaking 
bugs where games had to be rolled-back or completely restarted. I enjoyed 
seeing what made the games tick, and how certain effects and procedures could 
be combined to create outcomes that were unintentional by the developers.

In 2009, I became involved in online communities dedicated to hacking and 
social engineering, and learnt about the techniques people used to take over 
systems, steal data, and perform cyber attacks.

In 2010, I got involved in the open-source community surrounding the computer 
game "Teeworlds". I learnt C and some C++, and worked with git, svn, bash, and 
Linux servers, and started joining IRC networks. I built my own modified 
Teeworlds server, contributed code to the official Teeworlds repository, and 
ran multiple Linux-based Teeworlds servers. I also created bots, and dealt 
with security issues related to running online gaming servers as well.

In 2011, I became the head administrator and system administrator for a forum 
dedicated to the discussion of bug abuse, glitching, and hacking for the 
RuneScape MMORPG. Here, I header a team of two other administrators and five 
moderators to runt he forum. I continued to learn more about web exploitation, 
but this time from the defensive side, and learnt about system hardening. I 
wrote custom PHP code, found vulnerabilities in addons for the vBulletin 
software as well as the vBulletin software itself, and worked with software 
publishers to fix their code. I managed a mail server (dovecot), an NS server 
(bind), caching servers (nginx), MySQL, apache, PHP-FPM, KVM, all on Ubuntu. I 
learnt about hash cracking, and created one of the first public "database 
search engines". I worked on various web application firewalls, and detection 
methods for identifying breaches. This period of time was a crash course in 
everything security: from botnets, to the darkweb, to doxing, to chain supply 
attacks, to DDoS attacks, to web exploitation. I quickly learnt how to adapt 
and improve in an environment that was constantly changing, filled with 0days 
and malicious actors.

In 2015 I moved on to other things: university and sports. I kept up with some 
security trends during this time, but other than using FreeBSD on my laptop 
and making some scripts to make certain things in my life easier, had minimal 
involvement in cybersecurity. During this time, I started focusing on an 
interest of mine: retro video game history. I entered a niche group of video 
game collectors within Australia, and quickly became an important member of 
the community, researching history and collecting "local knowledge" to 
disperse publicly. I discovered previously undocumented historical artefacts.  
Using the skills that I had previously acquired in doxing, I was able to track 
down people from the 80s and 90s that could (try to) answer questions about 
the operations of the companies they worked for (or ran themselves), and 
conducted many interviews, to better understand the context of video games at 
the time. I was introduced to researchers at the Australian-Government-funded 
ACMI(Australian Centre for the Moving Image), which is a research and museum 
institute focused on Australian media. I collaborated with a few senior 
members of the institute, and eventually presented at two conferences with 
them.

In late 2017, I decided to go to North Korea, on a week-long tour for New 
Year's Eve. The reason was simply: "that sounds extremely interesting, unique, 
and somewhat outrageous." After that, I continued to Europe, and my 
spontaneous travels led me to Poland. The manager at the hostel I was staying 
at suggested I should work there for a few months. I ended up accepting and 
started to work as a bartender, and receptionist. I ended up staying longer 
than expected, and quickly integrated into the local gastronomy community. 
During this time, I balanced studies which continued in Australia, work, and 
continued travel throughout Europe (with Poland as base), and found ways to 
"hack the system" to continue my education while away from Australia. I 
also hacked the system to stay in Europe beyond what the Schengen agreement would 
normally allow an Australian. I learnt Polish, and worked in various roles in 
gastronomy: barbacking, cleaning, marketing, customer service, bartending, 
supervisory, management, and yes, sometimes tech support (fixing things but 
also especially: "see something and make them better with management 
collaboration").

In late 2020, I began working in the security team at Opera Software, working 
remotely while travelling throughout Europe. I very quickly made a name for 
myself in the company, and focused on making real improvements to the security 
of the technological assets and operations of the company, ensuring that the 
company was better prepared and better protected at scale in the fact of any 
cyber incident.I took on projects that others had struggled with previously, 
developed custom tools, discovered critical vulnerabilities, and engaged 
directly with teams across the company to improve security standards with 
tangible benefits. My work was not just about finding bugs -- it was also 
about making meaningful changes that had a lasting impact. In addition to 
this, I managed the company's bug bounty program, represented Opera at 
conferences, and collaborated on complex governance and privacy issues, as 
well as PR. I created tools that the security team didn't know they were 
missing, discovered vulnerabilities in systems that they didn't know existed, 
and hacked things that were claimed unhackable. I worked on both offensive and 
defensive security, and continuously worked with IT teams on architecture and 
re-architecture of systems, ensuring a secure environment. I worked on finding 
vulnerabilities in opensource software and proprietary software, and gave 
presentations, workshops, and talks in internal conferences for the company. I 
was also considered a domain expert in performing actions securely and 
building systems security: mostly due to my ability to sit down, understand 
what "the problem to be solved" was, and approach the challenge from an 
attacker perspective. My suspicion is that when I was hired, it was expected I 
would just run the latest version of whatever tool had been marketed well 
enough to the company, and read results as they came in. However, with nearly 
a decade of hacking and "wanting to know how things work" experience as well 
as my own first-hand experience with many of the technologies at hand (not 
just hacking but), I was able to offer much more. I also managed small hacking 
projects with new employees and interns in the security team, and created a 
roadmap for the security team. During this time, Ialso continued to travel 
throughout Europe (and occasionally back to Australia and a bit of Asia on the 
way). When I travel, I try to hang out with locals by meeting them through 
places like Couchsurfing, or friends of friends: or people that I had met in 
my previous job. Or, just meeting strangers, workers of the hostels I stayed 
at, or other guests.

In the beginning of 2024, I came to the realisation that I had offered 
everything I could to Opera and they had offered everything they could to me. 
My continued employment would be nothing but an activity to relax, receive a 
pay check, and continue working on problems which had already been solved. So, 
I decided to take a sabbatical, and learn new things, work on new projects, 
work with new technologies, and read new books.

I'm still currently doing that. 

---

I've been fortunate enough to be able to live off my passions; basically 
everything I've described here has been my job in one way or another. But it's 
hard to really see it as a job since it's exactly what I want to do: it's fun, 
it's weird, it's difficult, and it's exciting. It's hard to see it as work 
when you have a vision and idea for something, and you are able to put that 
into existence - and even being paid for it!

My hobbies, interests, and general topics that I'm passionate about include:
- Architecture
- Cybersecurity
- Film History
- Human Rights
- Mathematics
- Music (Melodic House, Melodic Techno, House, Rap, Hip Hop) [(My Spotify)](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/3wfARljUCoGyEGmFbjyvo3?si=a7b3eeb5d0894d10)
- Sport (Bicycle Riding, Weight Lifting, Rock Climbing, Rowing)
- Video Game History
- Sociology

